[MUSIC]
We've been talking about capturing
packets on the network interface.
I've mentioned it before and
now we're gonna just try a little bit,
let you see how to do it.
Actually that will be one of the
assignments too, you can give it a try.
So we'll start out by starting
the WireShark application,
which is gonna be our packet capture tool.
So WireShark,
I have the icon down here on the bottom.
It's this shark fin one.
So I'll start that.
So network packet protocol analyzer.
So if we look at WireShark, let's pull it
up a little bit, first thing it does is,
right on the front screen,
it gives me a list of devices.
Interface list here.
Let's click on interface
list to see the interfaces.
Now right here's listing four interfaces.
Four different rows in this
little window that's popped up.
Now each one of these interfaces is
a network interface they can capture on
Bluetooth, wi-fi,
wired ethernet and so on.
It's a little bit hard to tell
which one's the right one,
but I already know that it's the bottom
one, mostly because the number of packets.
Notice that it's already catching
a few packets on that interface and
the other ones are basically dead.
So I will click that interface.
Just like that.
Now, notice the start button.
When I select start,
it will start capturing.
So I'll hit start, and
WireShark should start capturing packets.
Now notice that WireShark
is blank at the moment.
That's because there are no packets,
right now, at this moment.
On this interface.
There go a few,
okay it's noticing a little bit of noise.
But what I'll do is, hm I'm curious what
those are but I'll look at those later.
So right now.
I see that they are, one's a ARP.
So what I'll do now is I'll force
some packets under the interface.
What I'll do is I'll start my web browser.
So that my web browser
can talk to a web server.
And then this will record the packets
that are transferred back and forth.
So let's start my browser.
Mozilla Firefox.
Okay, now as it's starting, let's just
move it outta the way for a second.
Yeah, see in the background here, we've
got WireShark capturing lots of packets.
So I'm gonna tell it to stop,
we've captured enough.
Click on capture.
Stop right here.
Okay now it's stopped.
So we've already gotten over 3,600 packets
just in that short amount of time.
Now, notice that what's showing here in
the main window, it shows one row for
every packet that it captured.
And it's just a one row summary,
it's not the whole message.
We can select each one and
look at it in more detail.
We'll do that in a second.
So first let me sort these
according to protocol.
There's this column here, protocol, and
you can see a lot of these messages RTCP,
which is an internet protocol.
Also, you've got HTTP.
Which is web traffic.
So, let's click on protocol and
sort according to protocol.
Now, DNS domain name service,
ARP address resolution protocol and so on.
So, lot's of different
protocols being used.
We're going to go straight
to the HTTP messages.
So let me just scroll down to HTTP.
So if you remember,
HTTP is basically world wide web.
So let's take a look at
the first HTTP message,
that's this one right here,
so I select it.
So I've highlighted that line.
And the window below, it gives me more
information about that particular packet.
Actually if we look all the way
to the bottom window down here,
you'll see basically Hex.
What's called a Hex dump.
Hex digits 001907D4 and so on.
So it's digits and letters A through F.
This is the representation of the message
in hexadecimal, so just the bare zeros and
ones represented in hexadecimal.
It's showing me that, which I'm not too
interested in looking at right now, but
sometimes you want to
look at the bare hex.
Now, above that, over in this window, it
basically has taken this hexadecimal and
broken it down into fields
according to the protocol.
So, if we look here, notice here in light
blue, it says Hypertext Transfer Protocol.
So I'll click the plus sign next to that,
and what it does is,
it says look, I'll scroll down
a little bit so we can see.
What it does is it realizes that
this is an HTTP protocol packet, and
so, given that it's in that protocol,
it knows the format of the message.
So, it knows this first piece of
information should be the get,
then the next one should
be the next header.
Next should be the next.
So it organizes it in that way so
I can read it.
So the first one we see here is the get.
GetHTTP141.
That's just the get
requesting the webpage.
Get slash, so it's just selecting
whatever webpage is available
there at the top level directory.
And its giving you the protocol number,
this is how any kind of a get message
starts is with a generic line like that.
So it's requesting a website.
And that's what happens when you
start up a web browser it goes
to its default website and
that's what its doing.
And then you can look at
the line below it host/..org,
and that's because my
default website is /..org.
So the first thing it did was it went
to /..org, requested the web page.
And line after line,
if we scroll down a little bit,
we can see more headers,
user agent, accept.
So you can see I'm using Mozilla,
you can see what version and so on.
You can see all the information
inside the packet.
So, that is Packet Capture for you.
And you can store it and
do all kinds of nice things.
To look at lots of details about each
packet if you're interested in that,
thank you.
[MUSIC]